README.md, before:

# stemsplat - ❗❗NOT WORKING RN❗❗

A lil stem splitter than runs locally on your machine. Basically just a easier-to-use version of UVR. 
I made this just to make my own "ensemble mode" layout where it splits vocals and instrumentals, then uses the instrumental
to derive other instruments.

**This is currently in ALPHA!!**
*BUGS/SUGGESTIONS: https://forms.gle/wSpe2nyFgcmuxSr28*

## Prerequisites

- Python (I'm using 3.13, not sure about other versions)
- Decently powerful machine (haven't tested on lesser machines or on Windows yet)

## Quickstart

1. Download the zip of the project (green code button at the top right ish -> download zip) or use git. 
2. Open a terminal (mac) or command prompt (pc).
3. Type "python3 install.py" This will open localhost:6060 and start the setup, then redirect you to 8000 (the main page) after setup is completed.
6. You'll then be prompted to download the models or add them yourself (downloads below). [currently you need to download them]

## Current Models (thx Becruily and KUIELab)

**Becruily:**
- Vocals - https://huggingface.co/becruily/mel-band-roformer-vocals/tree/main
- Instrumental - https://huggingface.co/becruily/mel-band-roformer-instrumental/tree/main
- Guitar - https://huggingface.co/becruily/mel-band-roformer-guitar/tree/main
- Karaoke - https://huggingface.co/becruily/mel-band-roformer-karaoke/tree/main

**KUIELab — https://huggingface.co/Politrees/UVR_resources/tree/main/models/MDXNet:**
- kuielab_a_bass.onnx
- kuielab_a_drums.onnx
- kuielab_a_other.onnx

## Future Plans
- Add a “estimated time remaining” to the processing of the stack of songs based on song length and how long it’s taken to process the previous length of the song.
- Add different models for pc specs, like a low/med/high quality toggle that will use different models.
- UI Improvements
- Running your own models
- Model Training
- video support??

Commit message:

Revise README for clarity and current status
Updated README with status, prerequisites, and quickstart instructions.

README.md, after:

Status: 1/5/26
- broken, will be fixed by tmrw, currently some issues with refrencing the configs

# stemsplat - DEVELOPER PREVIEW

**MAC ONLY!** This is a free, high quality, no bs stem splitter. No weird numbers you need to ask ChatGPT what they mean. Back when I used UVR, there were too many settings
and the default models provided super mediocre results. I've found [Becruily's models on Huggingface](https://huggingface.co/becruily) to be consistently good, so I'm using
them for this project.

**This is currently in ALPHA!!**
*BUGS/SUGGESTIONS: https://forms.gle/wSpe2nyFgcmuxSr28*

## Prerequisites

- Python (I'm using 3.13.5, not sure about other versions)
- Decently powerful machine (I'm using an M4 Max)

## Dev Quickstart

1. Download the zip of the project (green code button at the top right ish -> download zip) or use git. 
3. Open the app using Python. I'm using 3.13.5.
6. You'll then be prompted to download the models (uh don't click download, the button won't click, working on that)

## Current Models (Thank you Becruily)

**Becruily's Huggingface:**
- Vocals - https://huggingface.co/becruily/mel-band-roformer-vocals/tree/main
- Instrumental - https://huggingface.co/becruily/mel-band-roformer-instrumental/tree/main
- Deux - https://huggingface.co/becruily/mel-band-roformer-deux/tree/main

## Future Plans
- Add a “estimated time remaining” to the processing of the stack of songs based on song length and how long it’s taken to process the previous length of the song.
- adding single instrument splits
- Add different models to optimize for speed, like a low/med/high quality toggle that will use different models.
- Video support?
- Cloud Compute

## Way further down the line:
- Model Training (maybe as diff app)
- Running your own models
